Testing, one, two, three, four.
This is January the 11th, 2002, and I have the honor and pleasure of visiting with Doug Ferrata at his very fine home in Albuquerque to record his A&M memories.
Doug, to begin with, give a brief biographical summary of yourself before getting to A&M.
Family background, where'd you grow up, high school, what did mom and dad do?
Okay, I grew up in Houston and lived just north of Rice University.
And went to St.
Ann's Elementary and St.
Thomas High School.
And my father sold cars and my mother had passed away when I was nine years old.
And I guess that's about it.
Any important activities in junior or senior high?
No, nothing outstanding.
I was in scouts mostly and junior achievement, those kinds of activities.
I wasn't large enough to really be good at sports, and so I hadn't played any sports.
Why did you attend A&M?
I attended A&M primarily because my big brother had gone there.
My brother John is class of 57 and he had gone to the University of Houston for the first semester of college and then had seen A&M at a football game and looked at those boots and thought those were kind of cool and so the second semester freshman year he became a frog and went off to A&M.
And the rest is history.
There's been a lot of Aggies since him.
Had you gone up to visit while he was there?
I went up a lot when he was there.
He would go up and spend the night in the dorms and those sorts of things.
Pretty much got ingrained.
I mean, by the time I went to college, that was the only place I was going to go.
It was the only place I applied.
What did you like most about it?
What impressed you most before you got there?
The Corps.
I thought the Corps was pretty neat.
and the camaraderie, the band, you know, the typical things about A&M that get to you.
I was pretty much bleeding maroon by the time I went to college.
So you applied, and this is for fall of 19... Fall of 1963.
63.
And did you go to fish camp?
No, did not.
No.
And I went right in.
My first experience was...
I can remember this like it was yesterday.
My parents drove me up there or my father drove me up there and stopped outside of dorm 12 and let me off with my footlocker.
What did you have in it?
Oh, you know, all the standard stuff.
I mean, there was a list of the things you had to have, you know, and had the clothes and a few other things.
I think you couldn't have a radio or a lot of things you couldn't have.
And that's another story I'll get back to in a second.
But I can remember they left me off on the street side, the zip strip side of the dorm.
And I walked around the side with my suitcase and walked in, not the indoor, but the north door on the quad side and walked up two flights of stairs.
And as I rounded to go up the third flight of stairs, I saw two pair of boots standing at the top of the stairs, whose names I would later learn were Lew Zewski, the squadron commander, and John Hull, the executive officer.
And my world changed at that moment.
How did they change it?
They informed me right away that I was fish ferrata.
Well, first of all, I went up, and I kind of knew how to whip out, but didn't do it, and that didn't go over really well.
And they, in kind of a nice way, informed me that I was fish ferrata and turned me over to some of the pissheads, so I can't, it's kind of a blur after that right now.
Now, what outfit was this?
Squadron 13.
Do you have any idea how you ended up in that squadron?
No, no, it was just luck of the draw.
I hadn't...
hadn't applied for it.
I was just told I was in third grade.
And you had learned by mail which dorm?
Which dorm and everything, yeah.
And then got there and just showed up at dorm 12.
And I had an idea what to expect, but like anybody, you can't fully appreciate it.
Had your older brother given you any advice?
No, not a whole lot.
I mean, he knew that I had come up there and experienced it with him.
I'd spent enough time in the dorm with him and seen how things functioned and that sort of stuff.
He pretty much, I think, thought that I understood what I was getting into.
Did mom and dad give you any advice?
No, I just studied hard.
You know, my father had told me I was going to be an engineer, so that's what I did.
And that was your?
And I went up there and started aerospace engineering and five years later graduated in aerospace engineering, you know, and then stayed and got my masters.
What, as far as you know, what did that first year cost in round numbers?
I can remember it almost exactly because I had to borrow money to go to college.
It cost me about $1,600 total from what I borrowed and what I made during the summers.
It was about $1,600 total to go to A&M.
And did you have some spending money?
If so, how much?
Not much.
No, I mean, I had to milk that all year long.
And outside of occasionally my dad buying gas for my car,
I didn't have a whole lot of money.
I ate a lot in the mess hall, and I was really glad that they served three meals a day in the mess hall.
Because if they had not, it would probably start to death.
I ate a lot in the mess hall.
All right.
Describe your first two or three days and nights as you get assimilated into that unit.
Well, you know, it's the standard thing.
You get put in this environment and thrown together with all your fish buddies, and your hair gets cut and everything else.
And again, I don't know that I can pull out any specific memories of those first couple of days because it was a blur.
Did you get your hair cut at the MSC?
No, I think they took us to Northgate.
It was a barber shop at Northgate.
They took us there and had our hair cut.
How long was your hair before then?
Not very.
And so I really didn't miss it that much.
And got put into a room with my first official lady guy named Larry Lippey from Lockhart, Texas.
And that, I presume, was by luck?
It was by luck.
All by luck.
Describe how you all set up the room.
What all?
Well, I mean, there was nothing.
I mean, you didn't have to worry about arranging the rooms because there was nothing.
I mean, we had those old steel beds.
And then two desks.
And that's all that we had.
No rugs, of course, or anything else like that.
Just absolutely, totally stark.
What about that radio?
Well, what I can remember was
It was depressing enough being a fish in the court and not having any money and not being able to go do anything.
And I can remember, we were only, I think, allowed to play radios on the weekend.
And I can remember waking up on Sunday morning and you'd turn on the radio and there was only WTAW and KTRA.
And they both played oom-pah music in the morning on Sunday morning.
And that was more depressing.
than if I hadn't have turned the radio on.
Because we weren't allowed to have record players or anything like that.
So, I mean, everything was designed to make it as depressing as possible.
Now, didn't the sophomores or juniors get you all together and give you a lecture?
Oh, yeah.
I mean, the standard stuff.
Describe that.
you know, being on the wall and doing campusology and lecturing to us about how bad we were and those sorts of things.
I'm trying to think of some specific instances about that.
And of course, there were a couple of piss heads that you, you know, that would really rag on you all the time.
One of the funny stories that happened, this wasn't then, I'm diverting a little.
Towards the end of fish year,
There were two piss heads that lived next door to us that were ragging on us all the time.
And it was one of the last inspections of the year, one of the last standby inspections.
And in those days the medicine cabinets in the rooms were back to back to each other and there was a razor slot in the back of the cabinet.
We had this thing planned for them and so we heard the dorm call to order and as soon as the dorm was called to attention we went to our medicine cabinet and opened it up and I took a can of shaving cream and a straw and stuck it through the razor slot into their medicine cabinet and emptied the can of a shaving ladder into their medicine cabinet.
And then we're standing there by our bunks and we can hear their room as the officers come into their room.
And you heard their medicine cabinet open.
And you can kind of hear this because everything fell out of the medicine cabinet into this thing.
And I can remember some expletive that the officers did at that time.
We paid for that, but it was worth it.
What kind of payment did you all get?
Oh, they came over and got on us.
You know, I think...
If I remember correctly, that did happen before Fish Day on April 1st.
And on Fish Day at about 2 o'clock in the morning, a babble bomb went off in our room.
And Richard Ripley was my roommate.
And this thing went off because it was totally dark and this thing just BOOM!
an M-80 or a cherry bomb going off in those concrete rooms, the sound echoing off the walls.
And my old lady flipped on his lice first, and he said, old lady, the room's full of smoke.
And I said, no, that's not smoke.
And shoot for a month after that, every time you'd wipe anything in the room, it would raise a lather.
That stuff went all over the place.
Oh, man.
All right.
How did you all learn all the campusology?
Oh, we'd just get together and, you know, they'd allow us to pick up one at a time, so we'd all get together and memorize it and keep asking each other the campusology and that sort of stuff.
Do you remember any great Cush questions?
Oh, yeah, there's some great ones.
Let's see.
And there's some good trick ones.
Let me see if I can remember some of them.
I mean, there were always the standard quotes like, you know, Lawrence Sullivan, Ross Silverstein, the General Brigadier General, CSA, Governor Texas President, Indian College, you know, that sort of stuff.
And what was on the chemistry building, but... Oh shoot, I can't... One of my favorites is, how many stars are in the Texas flag?
Okay, it's got to be tricked.
If you say one, no, there's two.
There's one on each side.
Not on each side, that's right.
If you say there's two, no, there's one.
It goes through both ways.
That's right.
Therefore, you don't get to eat it.
You don't get it.
There was something about bricks.
How many bricks were there in such and such?
Oh, my.
And the answer was all of them.
You know, it was... Well, that's a good one.
Yeah.
No Cush questions.
Cush, you knew if it was good Cush, you were never going to get it anyway, so...
Now, you all ate in Duncan.
Describe the routine in your outfit for typical meals.
Well, of course, you had two freshmen sitting on the end that did meal service, and the freshman waiters were bringing the food to the table, and then it was your job to make sure that
that you got the right stuff from there to put out, and that wasn't meal service, that was called, shoot, I can't remember what it was, but then you had two freshmen, you had two seniors or two juniors at one end, and then two freshmen next to them, and then two piss heads, and then two freshmen at the end that worked with the waiters that were coming in, the two freshmen that sat next to the seniors or juniors did meal service for them, and so you had to know what they liked, and you had to always make sure that they had the right stuff on their plate, and that they didn't have something on the plate that they didn't like,
and that you protected them from anything that might happen.
Like, for instance, somebody coming up under the table and lighting their shoelaces on fire or something like that, or coming, there was always the threat that some fish would come behind them and slap butter in their ear or something like that.
Did that ever happen in Europe?
No.
And in Aggie food, what was your favorite and your least favorite?
Well, I like bull neck and spuds.
and cow, and I don't know that I had at least, I was, like I say, I ate just about everything that came along.
I couldn't afford to tear food away, and so I ate just about everything.
Did you ever get in trouble at home by using some Aggie Turr?
No, no, never did that.
Never talked about, you know, after birth and baby and all those good things.
A few guys have said, yep.
All those good things.
No, I knew better than to do that.
Let's see.
Your outfit, what was special about it?
What was really special was the CO.
The guy's name was Louis Zeske.
How do you spell him?
Z-A-E-S-K-E.
Yeah, yeah.
And Lou had gotten into trouble, you know, as we were discussing before the interview, we were talking about the process of A&M going co-ed.
Lou had gotten into trouble.
before his senior year for hanging Earl Rudder in effigy at Northgate.
And so he had kind of been in trouble with the Trigon.
And as it turned out, he never did get a commission, which I think was a shame.
Because he was a tremendous inspirational leader.
I mean, we would have marched, you know,
to hell and back with him.
He was just a hell of a guy.
He's one of those kind of people that you really respected.
And because of that, I mean, it was a pretty tight outfit.
Did you all have an outfit nickname?
No, not at that time.
We weren't like Foo Bird, which was 14.
We were just Squadron 13.
And you stayed in that outfit?
Stayed in that outfit for two years and then due to reorganization we became Squadron 10.
We were called Titan 10 at the time.
Engineers in both cases?
Primarily engineers, yeah.
Let's do academics.
How did you register?
Do you remember registering the first time?
Oh, we were standing outside of Cebisa.
In those long lines outside of Cebisa to go in and register.
And you'd go up to the desk that offered the course you wanted to, and if they had it, they'd give you an IBM punch card.
and you'd collect all these punch cards and you had to know about conflicts and you had to work all that stuff out there and then finally when you got all the cards that you needed, you went inside and presented that and registered for your course.
I can remember staying out there with long lines.
Do you remember going to your first classes?
What was it like that first semester?
Well, of course your freshman year, particularly freshman chemistry, you know, you're in that huge auditorium with all those people in there.
I was really, really excited about that, going to the first classes.
I don't remember anything in particular, though.
Of course, in those days, too, unlike now, I mean, you were a target anywhere on campus as a fish.
And, of course, I can remember a lot of times trying to get to class.
And, you know, there'd be some upper classman I knew who was walking to somebody I didn't know, going the direction I wasn't going.
So I'd have to walk along and talk to them for a while, and then lo and behold, here comes somebody else that I'd have to meet.
And it was always a challenge trying to get to class, you know.
Did you have any, looking back on it, did you have any classes that first semester that were important to you later?
Important to me later, no.
Some people, some learning experiences?
No, nothing really stands out.
Now, I presume that in almost every case, you had a full-time faculty member teaching the courses.
Almost every case, yeah.
And you were taking 18, 19 hours?
Yeah.
I look on that now.
In particular, I had two sons who, I've got one son who just recently graduated and another son who's a junior.
And, you know, right now when they go in, they talk about only taking 12 hours for the first semester.
And I think I took 18 hours my first semester in engineering.
Sure.
I didn't really have a life as an engineering major.
I mean, all my nights and all my weekends were spending the norm studying, you know.
All right.
Describe a typical class day.
What time did you get up and what happened from the time you got up to the time you went to bed?
I think first call was like at 6, if I remember correctly, and then you'd fall out at 620.
You had somebody else's room to look after?
Did you have an upperclassman to look after?
No, we didn't do that in our outfit.
We didn't have to do that.
You only had to take care of yourself.
And we would fall out on the wall and of course the piss heads would go over you in minute detail as to what was right and wrong.
And then you'd fall out.
downstairs and get in formation and of course we were in dorm 12 which is right next to Duncan and march in and eat chow in the morning and then you'd come back after you ate chow if you got to eat anything although we did actually get to eat pretty well what they would do is you know after a while they'd let up on you and allow you to finish or they'd leave and allow you to finish your food and that sort of stuff
and breakfast was one of my favorite meals, and so I'd scarf down as much of that as I could.
And then go back to the dorm, then you get your room ready for inspection, and then usually the first class was at 8 o'clock, and you headed off to class.
And then you had to be back in the dorm area at noon to get information to march to noon chow.
And then you had noon chow, and then if you had class, you went back, or if you didn't, you could, your room had to be ready for inspection until noon.
And then afternoon, if you went back and didn't have class, you could rack out in your bunk or whatever you wanted to, or go to class.
And then you had to be back in the dorm area in the evening, and formed up for evening chow, and went to chow, and then
intramurals if you had that, and of course CQ at night from, I can't remember, it was either 7 to 10 or 7.30 to 10.30.
Now, if you had any unscheduled time, where did you go to relax?
MSC.
Where in the MSC?
Oh, I'm trying to remember.
There was kind of a snack bar cafeteria in the bowling alley.
Of course, I go over there and check my spider in my mailbox, make sure he was healthy.
and just kind of sit around the MSC in general, maybe go down, let's see if I remember there was a bookstore at the time in there or down the bowling alley, just in general.
Then at night?
Then at night it was CQ and it was studying and then when CQ was over you had 30 minutes to
to get your room ready, get your brass ready, get your uniform ready for the next day, all that sort of stuff.
And then if you stayed up after that, you got what was called a late lights pass, where you could stay up after CQ.
Did you all do that much?
Oh, yeah, I had to.
I mean, I barely ever got to bed before midnight.
And were people really studying?
Oh, yeah.
We really studied.
And in those days...
Which, you know, like I said, I've got two sons that just went through and I had some real problems with some of the stuff that was going on now with piss heads coming in our ass and freshmen during CQ and some of those things.
But our outfit was real good about that.
You did not, CQ was pretty much sacrosanct.
And unlike today, the outfits were formed on majors.
And so it was kind of, in the evening,
kind of academic time and you could go to a sophomore's room and ask for help on, you know, math problems or other things like that and they would give you some pretty good help.
And of course you had the outfit quiz files and those sorts of things.
But it was, there wasn't a whole lot of time in an engineering outfit for messing around.
What did you, you and your closest buddies, what were your general guidelines for attending class and where did you sit and how did you behave in class and so forth?
You usually like to sit up towards the front.
In hours, you know, most of the guys in the outfit, the guys that lasted, were pretty serious about academics.
And, you know, you like to sit up in front, because if you sat up in front, it was less of a chance you were going to fall asleep.
And you, you know, the prof got to see you.
And...
And most of our guys, you know, we were pretty judicious about attending class and, you know, I mean, it doesn't sound very exciting, but when you go in for an engineering degree, you know, you don't have a whole lot of choice.
Let's see.
Anybody ever do any, in all the four years, any pranks in class that you remember?
By anybody?
No, but a lot of good pranks out of class.
Such as?
Well, right after we got there, I mean, this was like the third week we were in the dorm.
We used to have these large trash cans out in the halls, and they were called shit cans.
Everything's got its name.
Well, one morning we had no shit cans.
Somebody came in and stolen all of our shit cans.
And so Lou Zewski, Mr. Zewski, informed us that we were going to have shit cans the next morning.
So that night, all the fish got together, and we plotted out what we were going to do, and we divided up the quad.
And like I say, this was right after we'd gotten there, so we really didn't know.
We knew there were 12 dorms, but we had no idea which dorms were which.
So my old lady, Larry Lippey, and I drew dorm two.
We had no idea what dorm 2 was.
And so we're right down.
You know, this is like 2 o'clock in the morning, and we're skulking through dorm 2 trying to get these cans.
And I looked up on the door, and here it says, Cadet Colonel of the Corps.
Cadet Sergeant Major of the Corps.
And I realized really quick we were in the wrong place.
But both of us grabbed a can, and we ran out the south door of the dorm and ran towards...
Spence Park, and about that time, as we're, I can't remember what it was, we were running across the park for some reason.
I think we were going to kind of organize, and there used to be some homes on the other side of the park, and we were going to organize over there and then bring all the cans back or something, and we got about halfway across the park, and a KK comes by, and my old lady,
puts down his can and hides behind it in the middle of the park.
And shortly after that, he realized that wasn't a really sharp thing to do, so he picked it up and ran off.
It wasn't too much trouble to run away from in those days.
But that was number one.
The other major prank of our fish year was in the second semester, Zesky had gone someplace for the weekend.
And the seniors told us to brick up his door.
There were some homes that were across the park from the dorms that were being torn down at the time, that used to be all along that road, now where that big parking garage is.
And there were piles of bricks over there.
So Tommy Stone, who was an outstanding member of our class, Tommy, just a side note, Tommy went on to be commander of the RVs and head Yellier our senior year.
But Tommy, we got Tommy's car, and we're driving over getting these bricks, and we just loaded up a whole bunch of bricks in the car, and we start to drive off, and again a KK comes up.
And Tommy stops and gets out of the car really immediately and walks back to the KK's car.
And I think he was so flustered, the KK was so flustered, he didn't know what to do.
So Tommy fed him some line about what we were doing out at that time.
And he let him go.
So we went on back to the dorm.
And there was a parking lot on the south side of the dorm.
So we drove in there and unloaded all these bricks.
And we'd gotten some martyr from someplace.
And this room was on the third stoop on the end, on the north end.
We carried all these bricks upstairs and about two o'clock in the morning we start laying brick.
And if you walk in the door, you know, there's closet doors on either side in the dorm, and then the room widens out.
Well, right where the room winds out, we built a brick wall.
Literally.
Literally built a brick wall right there with mortar.
And got finished like four o'clock in the morning and went to bed.
And I can remember like at six o'clock in the morning, Zesky got back.
And I can remember...
hearing fresh mud.
So we all fell out and went back down and took them all down.
How did you all keep straight faces?
Oh, he knew we'd done it.
Yeah, I don't know.
So that nobody asked.
Nobody asked.
Nobody asked where this wall came from or something.
But I can remember, whether I talked to somebody or something, the look on his face, I guess one of the upperclassmen had told me this after that, that he had unlocked the door and walked in and just got this black look on his face as he faces his brick wall right inside of his room.
But nobody was hurt or anything?
Oh, nobody was hurt, no.
And there were other pranks, like somebody, one of the upperclassmen had an MGTC.
and this wasn't our outfit, I think it was Fulbert 14, that they dismantled the car and reassembled it in the hallway in the dorm.
And I can remember seeing that car sitting there in, sitting in the dorm, like on the floor, and then they had to disassemble and take it out.
In that first fall, describe a fish going to first football games.
What was the routine and how did you all get into it?
Well, of course, everybody went to the game in those days, unlike today.
Did they tell you how to behave or what to do?
Well, you know, I mean, you knew about wildcatting and you knew you had to stand and you knew, of course, at the end of the game, you had to be ready to get the L leaders if we'd outscored the opponents.
And you had a particular...
Well, there was the course section, yeah, and if your date had gotten early, she'd have a seat for you.
Yeah, there was nothing particular I remember about anything other than that.
You went to Yale practices?
Oh, I obviously went to Yale practice, midnight Yale practice.
And they were midnight then.
In the... In Caulfield.
In Caulfield.
And one of the things then, and up until recently, which I thought was great, which has changed, is the band was on the field.
Mm-hmm.
And I don't get the same feeling at midnight y'all practice now as I did then with the band out on the field.
I thought, I would love to see them bring that back.
Well now, the y'all practices you attended, were they in good order and was there good, was there anything inappropriate that happened?
There were good jokes.
The y'all leaders could tell a lot more colorful jokes at the time than they can tell now.
But they were in good order.
I don't remember anybody getting out of hand.
I don't remember anybody being drunk.
I don't remember.
And you and all of you fish went?
Oh, everybody went.
You went as an outfit.
Oh, okay.
You just, everybody went.
Now, when the y'all prize was over, what'd y'all do?
Did you go back to the dorm or go party?
In my case, I didn't have any money to go party, so I went back to the dorm.
And one of the best things talking about Midnight Yale practice was forming up outside the dorm when the band went by, you know, and then marching through the campus behind the band, which seems to have, the tradition doesn't seem to be as strong now.
I mean, everybody formed up behind the band there and went through it, and that's how you went into Caulfield behind the band because you could go in under the arch
in the old horseshoe.
And so everybody went in that way, whereas now, by the time the band gets there, the cop feels kind of almost full.
I think people miss out a lot.
Then on Saturday, you had classes.
No, we didn't.
Oh, Saturday classes had stopped?
Saturday classes had stopped.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, we didn't have any Saturday classes.
So what?
We had drill on Saturday morning.
All right.
On some mornings.
And then... And then after drill, you were free.
And...
could do whatever you want to until Sunday evening.
Do you remember your first football game as a student?
It's an interesting story.